# My New Blog

I'm starting a new blog. This is not the first time I've blogged. With any luck, it will be the first time I write blog posts that others have a reason to read. My previous attempt at blogging involved commenting on current events. "Everyone should blog" they said so I listened. They forgot to add "...about things you find interesting or helpful" at the end of their statement. 

Don't take that the wrong way. It's not that current events aren't important, it's the fact that me writing about current events is (a) useless and (b) boring. Other people already offer their own takes on current events (just check Twitter if you don't believe me, there's a take on everything). In a week, nobody will care about 99% of today's big events. I have a strong preference to write things that others will have a reason to read five or ten years later. It's hard to dedicate scarce time to an activity that doesn't provide value to others when there are so many alternative activities that do have value.

My life is built around learning new things. That may not be surprising, given my academic background. The whole point of getting a PhD is to learn how to learn. Some of the things I learn represent original knowledge, and they get published as journal articles. Most of the things I learn are not orginal but they might still be useful to others.

The point of learning is much more than simply "figuring something out". You've missed the point if that's where the process ends. Figuring something out is only the first step in the diffusion of knowledge. We teach thousands of kids how to drive every year. In some sense, they know how to drive based on mechanical actions that make the car move in a specified direction, but is that really what we mean when we use the phrase "learn how to drive"? That phrase refers to more than mere understanding of how you can make a vehicle move in a certain way. There is an implicit "ability to drive to the store to pick up groceries" or "ability to drive to work". Learning more generally should involve a practical application such as teaching others or doing something with the knowledge to make the world a better place. That could take the form of writing blog posts or being a more valuable employee so that you can ask for a raise.

We'll have to see how frequently I post. Learning - the real kind - is a time consuming activity. There are so many other activities that compete for my time and energy. It's always tempting to mindlessly start scrolling my Twitter feed, clicking the retweet button every so often, or check out the front page of Hacker News. If I'm being honest, that wins out over writing up a narrow piece of technical knowledge that will appeal to two people in the world, only one of whom will discover my blog post.

*2020-07-08*
